Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer
    or computing device to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.
    It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac),
    an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. A Java IDE (for Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write
    and debug Java programs. Many IDEs provide features like syntax highlighting and code completion,
    which help the user to code more easily.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse. ...
   IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition. ...
   NetBeans. ...
   Android Studio. ...
   Enide Studio 2014. ...
   BlueJ. ...
   jEdit. ...
   jGRASP.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Editor-Source Code-Java Compiler-Bytecodes,class.name.class-JMV-Operating System.
    Java source code is compiled into bytecode when we use the javac compiler.
    The bytecode gets saved on the disk with the file extension .class .
     When the program is to be run, the bytecode is converted, using the just-in-time (JIT) compiler.
     The result is machine code which is then fed to the memory and is executed.

what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
A. Java program's main method has to be declared static because
keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined. ...
 Without having declared main method static , your program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the super base class of all Java classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Major Differences between Path and Classpath is:
 1). Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
  Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
    A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.
     Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. We cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since
    they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.)
    What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract
what is Access Specifier?
A. Access Specifier is used to provide your code in Java whether other classes can access your code or not.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is Object Oriented programming and features are:
    Abstraction
    Encapsulation
    Inheritance
    Polymorphism
    Association
    Aggregation
    Composition

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
    Packages are used for: ... Making searching/locating and usage of classes, interfaces, enumerations and annotations easier.
    Providing controlled access: protected and default have package level access control.
    The java.lang package is always imported by default as it is loaded internally by the JVM.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API stands for Application Programming Interface.
    An API is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
    In other words, an API is the messenger that delivers your request to the provider that you're requesting it from and
     then delivers the response back to us.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. We CANNOT extend two objects, but we can implement two interfaces.
    Interfaces don't simulate multiple inheritance. Java creators considered multiple inheritance wrong,
    so there is no such thing in Java. If you want to combine the functionality of two classes into one - use object composition.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.  Search Results
    Featured snippet from the web
    Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
    if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java,
    that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
A.Method overriding, in object-oriented programming, is a language feature that allows a subclass or child class
    to provide a specific implementation of a method that is already provided by one of its superclasses or parent classes. ...
    Some languages allow a programmer to prevent a method from being overridden.

What is the difference between overriding and overloading?
A. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
     Overriding means having two methods with the same method name and parameters (i.e., method signature).
    One of the methods is in the parent class and the other is in the child class.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
A.Method overriding, in object-oriented programming, is a language feature that allows a subclass or child class
    to provide a specific implementation of a method that is already provided by one of its superclasses or parent classes. ...
    Some languages allow a programmer to prevent a method from being overridden.

What is Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.Exception is an error event that can happen during the execution of a program and disrupts its normal flow.
    Java provides a robust and object oriented way to handle exception scenarios, known as Java Exception Handling.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management.
    It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes.
    It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
    Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final keyword is used in different contexts.
    First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
    Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword,
     its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
    Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
    Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
    Final is a keyword.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor resembles an instance method in java but it’s not a method as it doesn’t have a return type. ...
     The new keyword here creates the object of class MyClass and invokes the constructor to initialize this newly created object. ...
     There are three types of constructors: Default ...
   ‎Constructor Chaining · ‎Constructor Overloading · ‎Static constructor

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.  A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.
    You can define as many constructors as you need. When a Java class contains multiple constructors,
    we say that the constructor is overloaded (comes in multiple versions).

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.  All classes have at least one constructor.
    If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor,
     called the default constructor. ... If the parent has no constructor ( Object does have one),
     the compiler will reject the program.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this is a keyword in Java. It can be used inside the method or constructor of a class.
    It(this) works as a reference to the current object, whose method or constructor is being invoked.
     This keyword can be used to refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent .
    super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
    super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
    super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs
    as well as programs written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode.
     The JVM is detailed by a specification that formally describes what is required in a JVM implementation.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.  The JVM is not platform independent. ...
    The JVM is used to both translate the bytecode into the machine language for a particular computer,
     and actually execute the corresponding machine-language instructions as well.
      Without the JVM, you can't run a Java application.

What version of java are you using?
A. Java version "13.0.1"

What is JAR stand for ?
A. A .jar file contains compiled code (*.class files) and other data/resources related to that code.
    It enables you to bundle multiple files into a single archive file. It also contains metadata.
    Since it is a zip file it is capable of compressing the data that you put into it.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. The JRE is the environment within which the virtual machine runs. JRE is the container, JVM is the content.
    Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files.
    It does not contain any development tools such as compiler, debugger, etc.

What is compile time and run time?
A.  Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable.
    Run-time is the instance where the executable is running

What is heap?
A. A Heap is a special Tree-based data structure in which the tree is a complete binary tree.
 Generally, Heaps can be of two types:
   Max-Heap: In a Max-Heap the key present at the root node must be greatest among the keys present at all of it’s children.
        The same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that Binary Tree.
   Min-Heap: In a Min-Heap the key present at the root node must be minimum among the keys present at all of it’s children.
        The same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that Binary Tree.

How java manage it's memory?
A. In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
     Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.
    Thus, we are not required to implement memory management logic in our application.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String class represents character strings, String is immutable in Java, When we create a String using double quotes
    The difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuffer is thread-safe.
   So when the application needs to be run only in a single thread then it is better to use StringBuilder .
   StringBuilder is more efficient than StringBuffer

What is Singleton class?
A. In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one object
    (an instance of the class) at a time. ... To design a singleton class: Make constructor as private.
    Write a static method that has return type object of this singleton class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
    Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.
     This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization
    process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class.
     A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop.
   On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.
   Furthermore, the while loop is known as the entry-controlled loop.May 3, 2016

What is Enum?
A. An enum is a user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants called enumerators.
    The colors of the rainbow would be mapped like this.: Now internally,
    the compiler will use an int to hold these and if no values are supplied

What is Iterator?
A. In computer programming, an iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container, particularly lists.
    Various types of iterators are often provided via a container's interface.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. 4 BYTES OR 32 BITS

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. ...
   Another reason of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
    while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just in time (JIT) is an inventory management method whereby materials, goods, and labor are scheduled to arrive
    or be replenished exactly when needed in the production process.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java objects reside in an area called the heap.
    The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
       When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that
       are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. Being an automatic process, programmers need not initiate the garbage collection process explicitly in the code. ...
    It can choose to reject the request and so it is not guaranteed that these calls will do the garbage collection.
    This decision is taken by the JVM based on the eden space availability in heap memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.  stack memory is used to store local variables and function call
    while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
    without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.
    It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection.

what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
    A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
    Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires
    the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem
    in a specific domain. ... You make use of a framework by calling its methods, inheritance, and
    supplying "callbacks", listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern. Constrast to library.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Arquillian.   Arquillian is a highly innovative and extendible testing platform for JVM that allows developers to easily
                 create automated integration, functional and acceptance tests for Java. ...
   JTest. ...
   The Grinder. ...
   TestNG. ...
   JUnit. ...
   JWalk. ...
   Mockito. ...
   Powermock.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit.
    Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit. ...
    It help developers to decide which framework should be used for Unit Testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. T
    asks may have multiple preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a
    finish-to-start relationship. Task P (predecessor) must be finished before task S (successor) can start.

what is dependency injection in java?
A. dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object.
    In Java, before we can use methods of other classes, we first need to create the object of that class
    (i.e. class A needs to create an instance of class B)

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.
    Overloaded methods are resolved (deciding which method to be called when there are multiple methods with same name)
     using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding, i.e, at run time.









